there was something in Reagan that was
unknowable I come to find out and even
those that were close to
him uh would say that that I don't don't
even know if Reagan was aware of it but
there was something the great
communicator there was a very private
place in there that you could not breach
I'm sure that
Nancy uh knew what that was but he was a
very very private person underneath at
all yeah well I wonder you know be
because of the remarkable role he
played there's something singular about
that right that that what would you say
integrity and vision that enabled him to
see the true nature of the Communist
threat early to fight that locally and
to learn how to do it and then to take
that battle onto the international stage
right to make that the the focal point
of his presidency yeah even when it was
really not the issue right even most
people were over here about that he was
and that's what makes a great president
is when they can they can point out
because they have all the
info and they could say it's here that
we need to go yeah yeah and convince
convince people that you know of what it
is to go in the right direction remind
them of the principles and um not just
the the uh the issue of the day right
that's something to get to get folks
right exactly well that's something like
a prophetic Spirit right that ability to
see the current situation clearly and to
see into the future and to put your
finger exactly in the right spot and it
is it isn't the case generally speaking
that American presidencies are founded
on say a foreign policy Vision right
that's foreign policy is important
obviously but it's usually not Central
and it's much easier for a president to
default to
some fast payoff local issue and to do
that continually rather than to fight
the battle he fought which he really
fought for decades right literally for
decades it a life say no to the Soviets
but his take was so brilliant and it was
disguised and because his idea and it
wasn't originally his idea it was you
know it was uh from a lot of reading
research and uh just time
spent
um he thought the answer was to bankrupt
the Soviets right their economy is uh
minuscule even today through to what
ours is they had done so much military
spending and they were really you know
things were so bad over there for the
for the Soviet people you lines just get
food and this and that at that came he
comes up with Star Wars which didn't
really exist he got the idea from the
movie you know about lasers you know
that are going to shoot down missiles in
space you know it didn't exist and
Russians knew it didn't exist at least
90% they knew it didn't exist but it was
that 10% that Reagan made him think
about it he didn't
he didn't back off of it at all yeah and
so but it that and that's what that's a
weird blend of f yeah that really tore
them up you know and uh so they were on
this military spending and and finally
they just you know it just
toppled that's really what brought the
Soviet Union down yeah well that's
that's a remarkable climax to a life
spent that you know that originated in
local fighting with the Communists in
unions in Hollywood yeah yeah so how did
you prepare to like how much work did
you do biographical work and so forth I
don't know exactly how you would prepare
for well a lot of it I I yeah a lot of
it i' live through i' live through the
times that had a lot to do and I I was a
history buff to begin with so like you
know I I remember the stuff but I uh I
watched YouTube
was uh really great because you have all
of those you have everything uhuh you
can go back and and uh and see uh and
you know what do you get to I work
outside in a lot so I work on the uh
physical how how's a person walk talk
and and then from that it goes inside
and I realize why that is for instance
like Reagan had like a crooked smile
yeah right it's like yeah oh yeah kind
of H like that and there was uh
and after do you do that a while you
realize well why is that and it's
because that's why you look like him in
the movie because So Co there's got to
be there's some muscles that are
deadened in his face yeah from what uh I
don't know but that's you know that
leads you to the the inside of of of a
person of where they kind problem and
the way he walked the way he uh uh the
way a person Grooms himself the way they
you know
the the image they put out and then
there's the but really when you get down
to that's the outside and you have all
the news stories and stuff but I talked
to a lot of people who knew him
personally yeah and
um yeah
and I think that's really where it
Formed I didn't want to do an
impersonation that's the thing that
scared me anything of you know doing an
impersonation what's the difference uh
because the the
it's the fir that impersonation is an
act you know it's like something you'd
see on Saturday Night Live the getting
down to who the person is the real
person is quite another thing a a
personal side it really humanizes them
yeah makes them singular and I I like
to uh want to get a part of a real
person of which I play many I'd like to
tell uh tell it their story from their
point of view yeah yeah you know not
well not from the outside about what we
thought of them and not for me to really
I try not to comment too much I try to
tell it from their point of view what is
it like the question is what if I me
were this person yeah in this situation
right well and that's also what you're
transmitting to the audience right that
opportunity so
what part of the reason that we go to
see movies is
because by watching the people on screen
and by noting their characterization we
can adopt their aim and as soon as we
adopt like our emotions Orient
themselves around aim and so if you can
embody a character yeah exactly if you
can or if you can characterize a
person's aims then you can invite the
audience to adopt their perspective
right and that means they can live being
Reagan for example in the course of the
movie why we go to the movies absolutely
and so way of okay so H so how long did
you play Reagan and what was the effect
of that on you like I'm I'm curious when
you embodi these characters so deeply it
has to it because you're really
occupying a different perspective it has
to change you I would presume um you
know I find myself like never really
asking that
question uh
um I it's something to me it's about
learning
about it's about learning about myself
yeah I don't know how exactly how to
sometimes articulate that um but and I
leave I leave I have learned to just
leave the character at the end of the
day at the end of the take in fact just
like go do something else right because
I've already it's kind of like osmosis
have already done all all the work and
now just let the let the subconscious
work right right so you can leave it see
that's one of the things that you learn
as a therapist is to because you're
listening to people and you're trying to
adopt their perspective but if you take
that home with you then you you can't
man it over
time they have happened to me you know I
learned that when I played Jerry Lee Lo
cuz oh yeah well to tell me about that
because I I didn't believe that uh yeah
at the s to tell you the truth and that
was Great Balls of Fire yeah that was
Great Balls of Fire and so you know I
wound at at the end about six months
after uh it came out or maybe a year
yeah I was in rehab
[Music]